Supply chain attacks
are one of the biggest threats you and
me as developers, web developers,
can face these
days. They are becoming more frequent
and more serious.
And I talked about that in another video,
which I released
earlier this week on my other channel,
link below.
Because this week,
when I'm recording this, there
the Axios library. By the way,
in this video here, I'm
focusing on the JavaScript ecosystem,
but supply chain
attacks are not exclusive to the
JavaScript ecosystem.
They are just particularly popular.
They are for various reasons,
but that's not the focus here.
Therefore, in this video here,
I'll share concrete
steps you can and probably should take,
and I'm taking, I'm
doing,
to protect against supply chain attacks so
the next time one happens,
you can keep on sleeping
happily because you're not in danger.
By the way, if this is helpful,
check out academind.com.
There,
I have courses on all kinds of AI
related stuff, so
that might be interesting to you.
So,
what can you do to protect against supply
It's two main layers, so to
say. The first layer is that you want to
reduce the danger of being affected by
such an
attack. The second layer is
that you want to
reduce the blast radius if you
are affected, and both
are important because you can reduce the
danger, but you can't reduce it to zero.
There is no 100% guarantee that
you will never be affected. So,
you can reduce it, but not to zero.
So, therefore, this second point,
if you are affected, you wanna
reduce the damage the attack can do.
Now, each point he-
consists of a couple of steps you can
ta- take,
a couple of things you should consider,
reducing the danger.
Maybe you already heard about
that. You want to set a minimum
release, uh, age for any
packages you add to your project. Uh, what
does this mean? It means if you are
using,
if you're working in a web dev project
using npm for managing your packages,
or bun or pnpm,
then some of these tools allow you to add
dedicated
settings that help you stay secure, so to
say. For example, if you are using bun,
not necessarily the bun
API, not necessarily in your code,
but as a package manager, which you
can do instead of npm, then bun has a
minimum release age setting you can add
in your bunfic.toml file, which
is simply a
configuration file you can add to your
project.
And if you add this setting here
and you're using bun for
managing your dependencies,
that's important of course,
to only ever install dependencies that
are at least that
old. Or dependency versions, I should say,
that are at- at least
that old. So, that is three days in-
in seconds here.
So, that of course,
is a huge security step up because those
supply chain attacks in the past have
typically been
detected and remedied within a few hours.
So, if you make sure
that you never install package versions
are younger than, let's say, three days,
you're already
pretty, pretty secure.
If you're using pnpm
as a package manager instead of bun
or npm, you have a similar
setting you can make. And if you are using
npm, good old npm,
you can actually also add a
.npmrc file in your project that
configures how the npm package manager
works, so to
say. And in there, if your npm version,
I think,
is at least 11.11.1, you
can also add a min-release-age
setting and npm should honor that
and not install
packages that are younger than
that date or package
versions. Important,
you really need to set this setting
this is null. The same for bun. So,
by default, no minimum
age is assumed. A sensible default that is
enforced by bun though is that by default,
it does not execute lifecycle scripts
of third-party packages. Now, what
is that?
Well, in your package.json file,
you of course typically have
scripts,
and you could also have scripts like
post-install scripts in there,
which libraries could add to
define some code
that should execute whenever
installed, and that
is how many of those supply chain attacks
They add malicious code as a post-install
script.
Bun, by default, blocks those scripts.
So,
if you're using bun for package
another big security step up because those
malicious
scripts shouldn't get executed.
I'm saying shouldn't
because bun has a default list of trusted
dependencies,
which actually do have their scripts
executed, and you could
also manage your own list here.
And therefore, one
thing you might wanna do to override
that trusted dependencies
list bun has is in your package.json
file, you can add that trustedDependencies
setting, which will be ignored by npm,
but which will be honored by
bun.
And if you set this to an empty array,
bun maintains to ensure
that no package has their
post-install and other lifecycle scripts
executed.
So, that's another security measure.
You wanna block those package scripts.
For npm, you can also get there. In the
.npmrc file, you can add a
ignore-scripts setting
and set this to true
so that if you're using npm for package
management, you also don't execute
those, uh, lifecycle scripts. And then
there is a last point,
which I read about a lot, which
I think is a bit overhyped,
but still worth mentioning.
You have that interesting
package.lock.json file or bun.lock file or
other lock files in your project,
depending on which package manager
you're using. I have a bun.lock file,
for example.
These lock files get created automatically
normally when
you install packages through npm,
then you get a package.lock
file, or through bun,
then you would get a bun.lock file.
Now, what these files do
is they lock in concrete,
highly-specific package versions.
By default, in your package.json file,
uh-You might have dependencies like
this, which says, "I want at
least that version of the
dependency," and major updates will not be
downloaded automatically, but
patch updates, for example, would.
So this does not mean
that I want exactly version
2.1.10 for this package, but
I want at least that version. And
that can be problematic.
If version 11, for example,
would be effective, then I would
download it if I
were to reinstall my dependencies, or,
to push this to production and in the
CI/CD process, I install my dependencies,
that might
install a different version than I
was using locally.
That is where the lock file comes in.
It locks in specific versions,
exactly the versions you installed
locally, and therefore the lock file
should be committed to version control,
should be committed to GIT and
GitHub, for example, so that
when you're deploying this, or if
you were to delete your note modules
folder and you reinstall all
dependencies, you download and install
exactly the dependencies you were using
locally. So exact,
specific dependency versions are
being locked in here. And that
is also kind
of a protection mechanism, of course,
because if you have safe versions
locally or before,
and you now reinstall or
install on another server based on the log
file, you get those
safe versions again.
Even beyond supply chain attacks, the
log file is useful, of course,
because it ensures that
app,
you're really installing exactly the same
if some patch release of some dependency
you were using
introduced a bug, for example,
you would not have that in the deployed
version. So it's good for predictability.
So that is important.
That reduces the danger of being affected
you're not pulling in new versions early
and you're
blocking those scripts. And with that,
you are already super,
super safe. You could stop here
and it would be way better than what you
probably had before,
but it's really important to me,
100% safe. You have no guarantee that
such attacks will be caught within a few
hours.
It could take a week,
depending on how sophisticated an
attack is,
depending on how popular a package is.
You have no guarantee
that it will only be hours.
So saying that you don't want to download
packages that
aren't at least three days old,
package versions I mean,
might not always be enough.
Blocking scripts also
is not necessarily always enough because
that's just one popular
way of launching such an attack, but,
of course, a more sophisticated
attack could inject code into the actual
package code
and that code could then execute on your
system.
If you're building a server side
application, let's say, and you're
downloading, let's say, Express.js,
and Express.js
or some dependency of Express.js had
malicious code injected,
that code might be executing on your
machine as you're running the
development server, for example.
So that is great,
but it's not a 100% protection.
That is why we also want to reduce the
blast radius, which in general is a
good idea, by the way,
because things can go wrong.
So what do I mean by that? I, for example,
mean that you
want to encrypt and hide your
secrets. Now, what are secrets?
Secrets are
stuff like my newsletter API key in the
Academind.com website source code.
Uh,
this is required for making newsletter
By the way,
great idea to sign up there to be the
sales, new courses, and stuff. And,
of course, that is not
something I want other people to get
because they could use that to
manipulate my newsletter contact list,
for example.
So that is a secret. That secret,
that concrete
key should not be stored in my code base
and should also not be
in my dot env file. Now,
as web developers, we
tend to put a lot of stuff in dot env,
and I admit I
also do this in my courses because it's
convenient.
But in theory, and not just in theory,
really, to be safe, that
dot env file should not contain anything
you're not comfortable sharing.
So I can freely share this file with you
because there's nothing in there
that would matter to you or
that would be insecure to share, right?
So that is what the s- the end goal should
be. Naturally, the question then is, well,
where do you then put these
values that you need during development?
And the answer is you wanna use a service
like Doppler.
And no, this video
is not sponsored by them.
There also are alternatives,
like Inphysical, or you could build your
own alternative, of course. These
are services that allow you to
manage your secrets in the cloud
and pull them into your
project,
inject them into the environment as you
development or production server so
that they are, uh, fetched
just in time, so to say. And you can,
for example, use
Doppler for free.
You can start and use it for free
if you have, like, a, a small
scope just up to three users,
up to 10 projects, I think.
So that can then be a great way of
protecting yourself.
So I, for example,
set up a project here in Doppler for my
website. In there,
you can have different environments,
you can define various secrets,
store the secret values there, and
then you can pull them in by reusing the
Doppler CLI, which you
need to install.
And then you can run Doppler Run
development server, and
that will inject those secrets just in
time to make them available.So that
is how you can make
sure that they're not lying around on your
system, in your project, or
anywhere else, and therefore,
if you would be affected by any attack,
doesn't matter,
but let's say a supply chain attack,
just read your .env file
and find your secret
values because the values aren't in
that file.
And of course,
it's not just secrets you might be using
Those supply chain attacks scanned your
entire machine.
By the way, it also didn't matter
if you were using Windows or Linux
those attacks work with all operating
systems and they were looking for all
kinds of passwords
or keys you might have on your system.
So outside of your project,
you don't just wanna hide or encrypt your
secrets, you also wanna, of course,
encrypt any SSH
keys you have lying around on your system.
Use tools or services like 1Password for
managing your
passwords and secrets on your system.
And no,
they are also not sponsoring this video.
I'm just using them personally. So that,
of course, are great ideas
because if there is simply nothing
valuable
lying around on your system, there
is nothing that
could be stolen.
Another step up here would be to
use a dedicated dev environment
or machine for development.
So what do I mean by
that?
I mean that you may be using your one
PC for everything.
You do your banking business there,
YouTube videos there,
you do all the personal stuff there,
develop there. And of course,
there's nothing wrong with that, but
have any way of doing your development
work on a separate
machine, a separate Mac mini or whatever,
then of
course, anything bad
that happens there stays on that machine.
So that might be worth it
and you have a better separation.
And, uh, for example,
your tax documents
machine wouldn't be, uh, accessible
on your development machine.
So having that separation might
be, uh, worth a look.
If you don't have a separate machine
use it,
you could look into using a virtual
For example, Multipass
is a free tool you can use to spin
up virtual Ubuntu, uh, machines on macOS,
on Windows, on Linux,
and it's not the only tool.
You can look into a broad variety of other
virtual machine,
uh, providers. You could also use Docker.
It's not perfect isolation necessarily
though, since it shares the host
kernel.
That's why a virtual machine might be
But spinning up such a virtual machine
might be a good idea too.
For example, I got Multipass installed
and I created, uh,
a bunch of virtual machines there,
actually one base machine, which I keep on
cloning because Multipass has a clone
command where you can use
one base machine and clone to create a new
machine based on it, to use it as a base
image essentially. And
if they're not running,
So I only have my development machine
running and I have one development virtual
machine per project in my case here.
And then that project,
so this project you see here runs in that
virtual machine. It runs in there.
So if anything bad happens in there,
it happens in that virtual machine And
in that machine, there
is nothing except for this
project. Now, there
are a couple of gotchas here
related to using AI tools like Claude Code
in there or Git, because
if you want to be able to git push, for
example,
you need to be able to connect your, your
Git account here. So I need to ha-
to have my Git credentials
somewhere in the virtual machine,
and those could be stolen if they were
stored there. The same for Claude Code.
If I do install Claude Code in
that machine or
Codex or whatever,
and I then log in in there, my
session token must be stored in
that virtual machine.
Now,
there are a couple of workarounds though.
For example,
I did register my virtual machine as a SSH
host in my SSH config file on my system,
and in there I set forward agent to yes.
Now, what exactly does this do?
This ensures
that I can actually add
certain credentials to my
SSH agent, to my SSH tool, so to say here,
and
forwards them to the virtual machine.
I don't store them in there.
I don't copy them in there, but
when I'm then connected to that virtual
machine as I am here using VS Code remote
feature where you can connect to a host
via SSH, in there,
I then have various, uh, keys
or credentials
available. Uh, this here, for example,
is my
GitHub SSH key,
which I use for authenticating with GitHub
That allows me to use git commands,
and for example,
push or pull from inside my terminal in VS
Code in that remote machine which
is connected via SSH using the
credentials that are stored on my host
machine.
So the credentials
are not copied in there, they
So therefore,
I don't expose them in there.
Of course,
if some process got access to my SSH
session in there,
it could still access those credentials,
security layer. That is the point.
By the way, if stuff like that
is interesting to you
that,
about SSH and how I forward credentials
know in the comments
and I'll create a dedicated video on that.
But that is one thing I'm doing. Now,
when it comes to AI agents like Claude
and by the way,
I have an amazing Claude Code course,
out,
or you get my subscription to get access
side note.
If I wanna use Claude Code in there, I can
install it and authenticate
and live with the fact that my
session token is stored in there,
because if something bad would
happen, I could always revoke
my sessions from inside my
Claude dashboard to, uh, kind of
restrict the amount of damage
that can be done.
And since it's a subscription,
an attacker can't do more than use up my
overall subscription usage,
but they can't actually hurt me
beyond that So I'm fine with that.
If I don't
want that, I could also run Claude Code
or whatever on my host
machine and just tell it to
connect to that virtual machine via SSH
and run
commands in there because it can do that.
It can, of course,
also run SSH commands to connect
to some remote machine
and run commands there.
So that would be an alternative way of
solving this problem.
And therefore,
using such a virtual machine
serious security step-up. But
if there's one main takeaway from this
it's that you should at least take this
first step because that's super easy.
It's just a bunch of config files you need
to edit, and that you should at
least also hide and encrypt your secrets.
If you do that,
you're already so much more secure than
And therefore,
with those steps implemented,
100% guarantee that things can't go wrong,
but it's
way,
way more than you probably have right now.
And the next time you see a video by me
or someone else about a big
supply chain attack,
you can hopefully sleep easy and be
relaxed about it